 

Monday, September 28th

●     No new events scheduled

 

Tuesday, September 29th

●     Back to School Night 5:30-8:00 PM

 

Wednesday, September 30th

●     Soft Lockdown Drill scheduled

 

Thursday, October 1st

●     Evacuation Drill scheduled (weather permitting)

 

Friday, October 2nd

●     No new events scheduled

 

Upcoming days off from school/half days

Monday, October 12th- Italian Heritage/Indigenous Peoples’ Day

Tuesday, November 3rd- Election Day. The day will be a fully remote instruction day.

Thursday, November 5th- 11:30 AM dismissal for Parent Teacher Conferences

Wednesday, November 11th- Veterans Day

 

News and Updates

Arrival for the Week of 9/28

3K and Pre-K: For the week of 9/22 (and always), doors open at 8:15 AM. Students will enter through the west gate closer to Elm Avenue

●     3K parents will be permitted to drop off their child at their classroom door everyday.
●     PK students will say goodbye at the gate and then walk straight to their classrooms. They will not be accompanied inside the building by their parents/guardians. Maplewood Elementary staff will assist them.
 

Grade K: The gate will open at 8:15 AM. Please enter through the west gate closest to Elm Avenue. Students will walk to the yard to meet their teachers, rain or shine.

Starting the week of October 5th, kindergarten students will begin walking directly to their classrooms through the entrance located at the gate. Teachers will spend next week preparing them for this new arrival routine so they become familiar with the process.

Grade-1: Beginning at 8:15 AM, the gate entrance will open for Grade 1 students. Please enter through the west gate closest to Elm Avenue. Students will walk to the yard to meet their teachers, rain or shine.

During the week of October 5th, students will begin walking directly to their classrooms through the main entrance. Teachers will spend next week preparing them for this new arrival routine and helping them adjust to the change.

Grades 2-5: Doors open at 8:10 AM. Enter through the main doors (students walk straight to their classrooms)

 

Dismissal

3K and PK

The gate will open at 2:25 PM. Pick up from the classrooms.

Grades K-3  

Pick up in the yard at 2:30 PM- Rain or shine enter through the west gate

Grades 4-5 

Pick up in from outside the building on Oak Street at 2:30 PM (at the assigned spot for each class)

Volunteers for Lunch and Recess

We would love to have parent/guardian volunteers to support our wonderful students during lunch and recess! If you are interested in joining us and lending a hand, please take a moment to fill out the Google Form linked below. We will be holding a volunteer training session on Friday, October 9th at 8:45 AM. 2026-2027 Lunch/Recess Volunteer Interest Survey

 

Upcoming Meetings and Events

Annual Title I Meeting on October 15th

Immediately before our PTA meeting on October 15th, we will conduct our annual Title I parent

meeting. The purpose of this meeting is to inform you about our school’s participation in the

Title I program and to provide information about how families can be involved in support of their

children’s education. Please join us at 8:30 AM.

Emergency Readiness Training

Emergency readiness training in schools takes place in September and continues throughout the school year. Training is designed by grade level to ensure that students understand the importance of these drills without causing unnecessary alarm. In accordance with our Trauma Informed Care approach, our drills will not include any props, actors, simulations, or other tactics intended to mimic a school shooting, incident of violence, or other emergency. Our staff review the proper actions in either an evacuation or lockdown drill and discuss any concerns or fears a student may have.

We encourage you to play a role in our trauma informed approach by reviewing the General Response Protocols linked: Emergency Readiness Information and Safe Schools . We encourage to also read our Family GRP Letter

Our first evacuation drill on Tuesday, September 15th went smoothly. See below for the dates of our upcoming drills. Please note, evacuation drills are subject to change as they are weather dependent. If it is raining/snowing on the date of a scheduled drill, we will reschedule it for another day that week.

 

Upcoming Evacuation Drills

Thursday, October 1st at 10:08 AM

Wednesday, October 14th at 1:51 PM

Monday, October 26th at 2:03 PM

Friday, November 6th at 10:27 PM

 

Upcoming Soft Lockdown Drills

Wednesday, September 30th at 10:22 AM

Friday, November 13th at 1:58 PM

 

Important Resources

Family Handbook

Please take a moment to carefully review our 2026-2027 Family Handbook. It is chock full of important information regarding the school year. If you would like a translated version of the handbook, please contact front.office@example-schools.org 

 

Important Reminders

Important Paperwork to Submit

Please make sure you return a 2026-2027 Blue Emergency Card for each child who attends Maplewood Elementary. We are unauthorized to release them to anyone who is not listed. You should also submit the photography consent form. If you need a copy of either form, please contact your child’s teacher.