Dear Maplewood Elementary Families,

Earlier today you should have received a separate email with ALL the information for Back to School Night on Tuesday, September 29th.  Please look it over and make sure you are here from 5:30-8:00pm to learn all about what this school year will bring for your child!

Have a wonderful weekend and we will see you on Tuesday,

Riley and Jamie

 

Monday, September 21st

●     No School- Yom Kippur

 

Tuesday, September 22nd

●     No new events scheduled

 

Wednesday, September 23rd

●     SLT meeting at 2:40 PM in the Library

 

Thursday, September 24th

●     PTA meeting at 8:30 AM in the gymnatorium

 

Friday, September 25th

●     Evacuation Drill at 1:40 PM

 

Upcoming days off from school/half days

Monday, October 12th- Italian Heritage/Indigenous Peoples’ Day

Tuesday, November 3rd- Election Day. The day will be a fully remote instruction day.

Thursday, November 5th- 11:30 AM dismissal for Parent Teacher Conferences

Wednesday, November 11th- Veterans Day

 

News and Updates

 

Arrival for the Week of September 22nd (no school 9/21)

Arrival

3K and Pre-K: For the week of 9/22 (and always), doors open at 8:15 AM. Students will enter through the west gate closer to Elm Avenue

●     3K parents will be permitted to drop off their child at their classroom door every day.
●     PK students will say goodbye at the gate and then walk straight to their classrooms. They will not be accompanied inside the building by their parents/guardians. Maplewood Elementary staff will assist them.
 

Grades K: The gate will open at 8:15 AM. Enter through the west gate closer to Elm Avenue (students will walk to the yard to meet their teachers - rain or shine. In a few weeks, they will begin transitioning to walking straight to their classrooms.)

 

Grade-1: The gate entrance opens at 8:15 AM. Enter through the west gate closer to Elm Avenue (students will walk to the yard to meet their teachers - rain or shine. In a few weeks, they will begin transitioning to walking straight to their classrooms through the main entrance.)

 

Grades 2-5: Doors open at 8:10 AM. Enter through the main doors (students walk straight to their classrooms)

 

Dismissal

 

3K and PK

The gate will open at 2:25 PM. Pick up from the classrooms.

 

Grades K-3  

Pick up in the yard at 2:30 PM- Rain or shine enter through the west gate

 

Grades 4-5 

Pick up in from outside the building on Oak Street at 2:30 PM (at the assigned spot for each class)

 

Upcoming Meetings and Events

 

Back to School Night September 29th

We are looking forward to seeing EVERY family at this special in-person event. There will be a session in your child’s classroom as well as other sessions with the PTA, and cluster teachers around the building. Please plan on being at school from 5:30-8:00pm.

 

Annual Title 1 Meeting on October 15th

Immediately before our PTA meeting on October 15th, we will conduct our annual Title I parent

meeting. The purpose of this meeting is to inform you about our school’s participation in the

Title I program and to provide information about how families can be involved in support of their

children’s education. Please join us at 8:30 AM.

 

Emergency Readiness Training

Emergency readiness training in schools takes place in September and continues throughout the school year. Training is designed by grade level to ensure that students understand the importance of these drills without causing unnecessary alarm. In accordance with our Trauma Informed Care approach, our drills will not include any props, actors, simulations, or other tactics intended to mimic a school shooting, incident of violence, or other emergency. Our staff review the proper actions in either an evacuation or lockdown drill and discuss any concerns or fears a student may have.

We encourage you to play a role in our trauma informed approach by reviewing the General Response Protocols linked: Emergency Readiness Information and Safe Schools . We encourage to also read our Family GRP Letter

Our first evacuation drill on Tuesday, September 15th went smoothly. See below for the dates of our upcoming drills. Please note, evacuation drills are subject to change as they are weather dependent. If it is raining/snowing on the date of a scheduled drill, we will reschedule it for another day that week.

 

Upcoming Evacuation Drills

Friday, September 25th at 1:40 PM

Thursday, October 1st at 10:08 AM

Wednesday, October 14th at 1:51 PM

Monday, October 26th at 2:03 PM

Friday, November 6th at 10:27 PM

 

Upcoming Soft Lockdown Drills

Wednesday, September 30th at 10:22 AM

Friday, November 13th at 1:58 PM

 

PTA Meeting

Our first PTA Meeting of the year will be on Thursday, September 24th at 8:30 AM in the gymnatorium.

 

Important Resources

 

Family Handbook

Please take a moment to carefully review our 2026-2027 Family Handbook. It is chock full of important information regarding the school year. If you would like a translated version of the handbook, please contact front.office@example-schools.org 

 

Discipline Code and Letters for Families

To help provide students with a safe, supportive, and inclusive learning environment, the Chancellor's Citywide Behavioral Expectations to Support Student Learning (including the Discipline Code) outlines the guidelines and expectations for student behavior in school.

 

Annual Privacy Notices

  Federal and state law, and Chancellor’s Regulation A-820, require MPS and its schools to  
  provide families with the following annual notices around the protection of student rights and   
  privacy:
● Annual FERPA Notice;

● Annual PPRA Notice; and

● Parent Bill of Rights for Data Privacy and Security.

 The Privacy Packet for Families, which also includes these annual notices and a letter from

 our Chief Privacy Officer. Translations can be found on the MPS Student Privacy webpage.

 
Immigration Support Letter from Chancellor Jordan Rivers
After Welcome back to school! I am writing to share important information on our efforts to support the safety and learning of all of our students, especially for our immigrant and undocumented families. As an immigrant myself, I want to be clear: Metro Public Schools (MPS) welcomes and serves every child, regardless of immigration status.

https://www.example-schools.org/families (this letter is under the Welcome Back to School Letter on the MPS page linked)

 

School Health Guidance and Ill Students

As a reminder, please review the Health Guidance and Resources for Families. In addition, note that if a student becomes ill during the school day, the school nurse will determine, based on the student’s symptoms and the nurse’s professional clinical judgement, if the student needs to go home.

 

Respect for All

Please refer to the Respect for All webpage. The family-facing information explains DOE policies and procedures for preventing and addressing student-to-student sexual harassment, gender-based harassment, bullying, intimidation, and/or discrimination. These materials also include contact information for support and reporting instructions for parents, if the school fails to address their complaint or retaliates against them for making a complaint. 

 

The policy prohibits such behavior by students against other students and by staff against students. Please refer to this link: Respect for All for more information.

Important Reminders
 
Important Paperwork to Submit
Please make sure you return a 2026-2027 Blue Emergency Card for each child who attends Maplewood Elementary. We are unauthorized to release them to anyone who is not listed. You should also submit the photography consent form. If you need a copy of either form, please contact your child’s teacher.
 